resources/README.md, before:

# Resources:

## General resources:

- JetBrains Academy - Java Backend Developer [track](https://hyperskill.org/tracks/12)
- materials from official training ["Introduction to Gradle Build Tool"](https://gradle.com/training/)**(though I haven't participated in the training)**
- Tom Gregory's "Get going with Gradle" [course](https://learn.tomgregory.com/courses/get-going-with-gradle)
- “Gradle tutorial for complete beginners” [article](https://tomgregory.com/gradle-tutorial-for-complete-beginners/)

## Resources by topic:
*(if some resource was already mentioned in the section - it will not be listed here)*

### What is Build Tool?
- [What is difference between build project in IntelliJ and Gradle build?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57470933/what-is-difference-between-build-project-in-intellij-and-gradle-build)

### Gradle Overview
- [Projects, plugins and tasks](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html#sec:projects_and_tasks)
- [Terminology](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/what_is_gradle.html#terminology)
- [Build Lifecycle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/build_lifecycle.html)

### Build Script
- [Build Script Basics](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
- [Declaring repositories](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
- [How to add a Gradle dependency](https://tomgregory.com/how-to-add-a-gradle-dependency/)
- [Declaring dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
- [Documenting dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html#sec:documenting-dependencies)
- [A Groovy Build Script Primer](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)

### Gradle Wrapper
- [The Gradle Wrapper](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
- [What is the Gradle Wrapper and Why Use It](https://tomgregory.com/what-is-the-gradle-wrapper-and-why-should-you-use-it/)
- [gradle vs gradlew](https://tomgregory.com/gradle-vs-gradlew-difference/)
- [Run Your Gradle Build Anywhere with the Gradle Wrapper](https://reflectoring.io/gradle-wrapper/)

### Create Java application
- [Building Java Applications Sample](https://docs.gradle.org/current/samples/sample_building_java_applications.html)

### Work with Gradle
- [Command-Line Interface](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/command_line_interface.html)

### Share project
- [Publishing a project as module](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_setup.html)
- [Maven Publish Plugin](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html)
- [MavenPublication](https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl/org.gradle.api.publish.maven.MavenPublication.html)
- [Publish Maven artifacts using Gradle command-line tool﻿](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/space/publish-artifacts-from-a-gradle-project.html#publish-maven-artifacts-using-the-gradle-command-line-tool)
- [Component](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html#sub:terminology_component)

### Multi-project build
- [Executing Multi-Project Builds](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
- [Structuring and Building a Software Component with Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/multi_project_builds.html#multi_project_buildseee)
- [Project dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html#sub:project_dependencies)
- [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
- [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html#sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects)
- [Use buildSrc to abstract imperative logic](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html#sec:build_sources)
- [buildSrc project](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/custom_plugins.html#sec:packaging_a_plugin)

### Troubleshooting Gradle
- [Search for Help with Gradle Build Tool](https://gradle.org/help/#gsc.tab=0)

#   
|[BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS](https://github.com/yanamlnk/gradle-notes#table-of-contents)|
| --- |

Commit message:

new chapter maven-notes added, main readme edited accordingly, more resources added for new chapter

resources/README.md, after:

# Resources:

## General resources:

- JetBrains Academy - Java Backend Developer [track](https://hyperskill.org/tracks/12)
- materials from official training ["Introduction to Gradle Build Tool"](https://gradle.com/training/)**(though I haven't participated in the training)**
- Tom Gregory's "Get going with Gradle" [course](https://learn.tomgregory.com/courses/get-going-with-gradle)
- “Gradle tutorial for complete beginners” [article](https://tomgregory.com/gradle-tutorial-for-complete-beginners/)

## Resources by topic:
*(if some resource was already mentioned in the section - it will not be listed here)*

### What is Build Tool?
- [What is difference between build project in IntelliJ and Gradle build?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/57470933/what-is-difference-between-build-project-in-intellij-and-gradle-build)

### Gradle Overview
- [Projects, plugins and tasks](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html#sec:projects_and_tasks)
- [Terminology](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/what_is_gradle.html#terminology)
- [Build Lifecycle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/build_lifecycle.html)

### Build Script
- [Build Script Basics](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
- [Declaring repositories](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
- [How to add a Gradle dependency](https://tomgregory.com/how-to-add-a-gradle-dependency/)
- [Declaring dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
- [Documenting dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html#sec:documenting-dependencies)
- [A Groovy Build Script Primer](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)

### Gradle Wrapper
- [The Gradle Wrapper](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
- [What is the Gradle Wrapper and Why Use It](https://tomgregory.com/what-is-the-gradle-wrapper-and-why-should-you-use-it/)
- [gradle vs gradlew](https://tomgregory.com/gradle-vs-gradlew-difference/)
- [Run Your Gradle Build Anywhere with the Gradle Wrapper](https://reflectoring.io/gradle-wrapper/)

### Create Java application
- [Building Java Applications Sample](https://docs.gradle.org/current/samples/sample_building_java_applications.html)

### Work with Gradle
- [Command-Line Interface](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/command_line_interface.html)

### Share project
- [Publishing a project as module](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_setup.html)
- [Maven Publish Plugin](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/publishing_maven.html)
- [MavenPublication](https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl/org.gradle.api.publish.maven.MavenPublication.html)
- [Publish Maven artifacts using Gradle command-line tool﻿](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/space/publish-artifacts-from-a-gradle-project.html#publish-maven-artifacts-using-the-gradle-command-line-tool)
- [Component](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html#sub:terminology_component)

### Multi-project build
- [Executing Multi-Project Builds](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
- [Structuring and Building a Software Component with Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/multi_project_builds.html#multi_project_buildseee)
- [Project dependencies](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies.html#sub:project_dependencies)
- [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
- [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html#sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects)
- [Use buildSrc to abstract imperative logic](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html#sec:build_sources)
- [buildSrc project](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/custom_plugins.html#sec:packaging_a_plugin)

### Troubleshooting Gradle
- [Search for Help with Gradle Build Tool](https://gradle.org/help/#gsc.tab=0)

### Maven Notes
- [Maven in 5 Minutes](https://maven.apache.org/guides/getting-started/maven-in-five-minutes.html)
- [Maven Getting Started Guide](https://maven.apache.org/guides/getting-started/index.html)
- [Maven Tutorial - Crash Course(Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xatr8AZLOsE&t=338s&ab_channel=MarcoCodes)
- [Introduction to Archetypes](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-archetypes.html)
- [Project creation (from an archetype)](https://maven.apache.org/archetype/maven-archetype-plugin/usage.html) 
- [XML Syntax Rules](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_syntax.asp)
- [POM Reference](https://maven.apache.org/pom.html#POM_Reference)
- [Introduction to the POM](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-pom.html)
- [Properties](https://maven.apache.org/pom.html#Properties)
- [What does properties tag mean in pom xml maven?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/65696058/what-does-properties-tag-mean-in-pom-xml-maven)
- [Setting the -source and -target of the Java Compiler](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-compiler-plugin/examples/set-compiler-source-and-target.html)
- [Maven Goals and Phases](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-goals-phases)
- [Introduction to the Build Lifecycle](https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html)
- [Plugin Management in Maven](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-plugin-management)
- [Multi-Module Project with Maven](https://www.baeldung.com/maven-multi-module)
- [target folder vs local repository](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40979487/target-folder-vs-local-repository)
- [Output build of Maven](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34895982/output-build-of-maven/34896172#34896172)
- [Maven Wrapper](https://maven.apache.org/wrapper/)

#   
|[BACK TO TABLE OF CONTENTS](https://github.com/yanamlnk/gradle-notes#table-of-contents)|
| --- |
